In the successive chapters of the financial and economic collapse, the levels of vulnerability of the Lebanese are revealed.
There are a number of risks that start with the collapse of the health sector and the environment, and end with the threat of famine and war. obituary,
We the Lebanese, the extent of the destruction inflicted on the country as a result of the accumulation of the rule of this political class,
This is because they have coalesced and agreed among themselves and with the financial and commercial mafias to transform
It is distributed evenly among them, and it is referred to
The state and its capabilities, the future of the people and their savings, to the end
Some of them decide war and peace and even the foreign policy of a foreign country.
For many decades, politics and its polarizations have been in the service of interests attributed to sects
There are very narrow circles in the ruling authority in Riffa
and its regional leaderships and hubs, but it has an impact
its components and divisions. The waste accumulation crisis in 2015 served as a model for this reality, as
The poles of the authority gave priority to distributing shares among them, not finding the most appropriate environmentally and healthily
for the Lebanese. This is how they made mountains and rivers of garbage, transforming the environment and residential areas into
Infested places threatened by diseases. In the energy and telecommunications sectors, quotas were wasted
Tens of billions of dollars aggravated the public debt and the severe economic situation. alone this
Narrow interests create politics, internal divisions, and even pole alignments
Power and its parties in regional conflicts. Ultimately, the result of this
politics over long decades, a weak state, plundered and wasted resources, and a people
rights deprived, despite the sacrifices in order to liberate Lebanon from foreign occupation.
The poles of power lit their sectarian fires among the people to perpetuate them
Who is the firewood of this collapse?
their influence. Any attempt, even timid, to hold a corrupt person accountable in the judiciary, quickly turns into a conspiracy
To undermine "sect rights". This is because “sect” in the dictionary of Lebanese politics has become a pillar
Anxiety and fear of the other in light of a weak state that lacks the ability to take initiative, unless
On the pretext of the weakness of the state and its inability to protect the Lebanese,
Sharing resources between the poles of corruption.
National sovereignty and the principle of exclusivity of arms in the hands of the state have been profaned in order to reform weapons that comply with agendas
Signed by the poles of power, even from
foreign countries, and it became covered in ministerial statements

Accept opponents (in public) of this weapon and the force supporting it. And the state's deficit here starts from
The origin, that is, the approach to governance from the gateway to the public interest and investments in local expertise,
Building a democratic system that guarantees the rotation of power and prevents the accumulation of wealth at the expense of rights
Citizens, allow public and private freedoms to flourish to protect pluralism.
Against these practices, the Lebanese rose up on October 17. The uprising carried these hopes Restoring confidence in the state and its ability to
With the transfer of power to the post-war generation, in the hope that
Managing the affairs of the Lebanese, protecting them, charting their future and upgrading them economically and socially
educational, environmental and health.
Over the past decades, the Lebanese have had no choices in governing and managing the country, and they have no political parties
A democracy that crystallizes policies on the basis of citizens' interests, not against them. who has this
Over the past decades, the Lebanese have had no choices in governing and managing the country, and they have no political parties
A democracy that crystallizes policies on the basis of citizens' interests, not against them. who has this
The Progress Party was born. Its goal is to provide a real alternative to this authority and its approach, and to rebuild
need, and
People's confidence in their ability to establish a better future where a productive and fair economy meets
while preserving the environment. It would fortify our society and provide real alternatives to people from these
Restoring confidence in the state and its ability, alone, to protect
The authoritarian political class, that y
its people without conceding to an outside party the sovereign decision of war and peace or any national decisions
other basic.
“Progress” is a political project to build the state and society based on the priority of the public interest
and social justice, and extricating the country from a bitter reality created by this entire political class,
People pay the high price from their savings, their jobs, their future and the future of their children.
In light of the successive collapses, and in the midst of the politicians screaming and slandering them with responsibility and accusations
What has become of the country, it is incumbent upon us, as citizens worried about the future of our people, to take the initiative
We organize to provide alternatives, and to forge a promising future that the Lebanese deserve.

Here is the hope for the desired change, here is "progress"!
In the following, we summarize our positions regarding urgent and current issues in our country in 12 basic points:
First, it will advance the Lebanese economy, establish social justice and a state that alone is able to The Taqaddam party aims to crystallize alternatives in policies and personalities on issues of
protect its borders and its people. This approach would lay the foundation for a new social contract
The rights of the individual and the direct relationship between the citizen and his state without mediation.
Second | Refuses to "advance" arms outside the state, and to subjugate its sovereignty in foreign policy and war
foreign occupation in defense of sovereignty
And peace to any outside party. He appreciates the sacrifices of a Lebanese who resisted The organization is approaching the handling of the “Hezbollah” weapon walk through the introduction gate
Lebanon and its independence. wi
Restoring confidence in the state and its ability to protect the Lebanese from É
A different model of judgment
External dangers, including the Israeli enemy.
third | Taqaddum adopts building a sustainable, productive economic model that frees citizens from dependence
economic relations, clientelism, and concentration of wealth, as well as ensuring social justice and security
Lebanese food. Parallel to the recovery of the economy in these directions, “Taqaddum” sees the necessity
In strengthening basic public services, establishing social security, and ensuring tax fairness financial and equitable distribution of resources.
Fourth The party adopts an environmental policy that approaches this vital file for Lebanon through two protection gates
Nature and climate, as well as establishing sustainable protection for the health of the Lebanese and their areas of residence.
Fifth| Taqaddum is working on formulating a rambling plan to solve the energy crisis, a priority in any plan
A national reform, after the sector exhausted the public treasury with billions of dollars in deficit.
Sixth| Taqaddum sees the necessity of activating the oversight bodies in the country through the appointment of
independently on its head. These bodies include the Audit Bureau and the Central Inspection

Including the Tenders Department) and the Civil Service Council.
Seventh | In the context of restoring confidence in state institutions, the party adopts a draft law
The "Independence and Transparency of the Judicial Judiciary" prepared by the "Legal Agenda", guarantees the election of
The judiciary is from within the apparatus, and not politically appointed within the context of quotas. This law would enhance the independence of the judiciary away from the interference and pressure of politicians.
eighth | Taqaddum will activate union action, either in parallel in the face of God Power poles controlled it and emptied it of its content, or through
union that j
Competition from within, as happened in the Bar and Engineers Syndicates.
“Progress” believes in the necessity of distributing the “price” of the current financial and economic collapse in a fair way,
ninth |
Through taxes on high deposit interest earnings, public debt rescheduling, and the restoration of
State property and its looted money, and holding the corrupt political class accountable for what it has done
against the Lebanese during the past decades.
He demanded that "progress" take strides towards strengthening the role of women and putting an end to the misery of Charles
tenth |
Discrimination against her and the recognition of all her rights. In Lebanese politics, Parliament must impose
A "quota" guarantees that at least a quarter of the seats will be vacant for Lebanese women in any future elections. and supports
“Provides” draft laws protecting women from domestic violence, voluntary civil marriage, and raising
The age of custody in religious courts.
eleven | The state must guarantee to female citizens and male citizens individual rights and freedoms
and the public through judicial and security legislation and practices. This includes passing a law Modern media, and prevent the appearance of female citizens and citizens in issues of opinion, in front of the police
Justice, and stop the Murfaha office’s prosecution of information crimes against journalists and bloggers on
the background of their publications.

twelve | The party supports initiatives that seek to limit the powers of the military courts on the one hand
Restricting it to the military, and abolishing all types of prior control over artistic and creative works
And guarantee the freedom to establish trade unions and demonstrate without prior permission.

